docs/content/getting-started/run.md, before:

# ServoBox Run Guide

Get up and running with a real-time VM, verify performance, set up networking, and install control stacks. For in-depth options, follow the links to the User Guide.

## 1) Create your first RT VM

```console
servobox init
```

- Defaults: name `servobox-vm`, 4 vCPUs, 8GB RAM, 40GB disk, NAT `192.168.122.100`.
- First run downloads the base image (cached afterwards).

Start it:

```console
servobox start
```

- VM lifecycle details: [Commands Reference](../user-guide/commands.md)

## 2) Verify RT configuration and latency

```console
servobox rt-verify          # Check pinning, IRQs, kernel params
servobox test --duration 30 # Quick cyclictest
```

## 3) Networking

Configure or change networking after creation:

```console
servobox network-setup --name my-vm  # Interactive NIC wizard
```

- Network configuration: [Networking](../user-guide/networking.md)

## 4) Install packages and run stacks

The package installer adds pre-configured robotics stacks into your VM image and resolves dependencies automatically.

Basics:

```console
# Discover packages
servobox pkg-install --list

# Install a stack (deps auto-installed)
servobox pkg-install serl-franka-controllers

# Run a stack's launch helper
servobox run serl-franka-controllers

# Target a specific VM
servobox pkg-install --name my-vm libfranka-gen1

# Use custom/local recipes
servobox pkg-install --custom ~/my-recipes my-package

# Show detailed progress
servobox pkg-install ros2-humble --verbose
```

- Details: [Package Management](../user-guide/package-management.md)
- Catalog: [Available Packages](../user-guide/package-management.md#available-packages)

## 5) SSH access

```console
servobox ssh --name my-vm
```

SSH details are covered in the [Network Configuration](../user-guide/networking.md) guide.

## Troubleshooting

- Quick diagnostics and common fixes: [Troubleshooting](../reference/troubleshooting.md)

Commit message:

Fix group membership activation on fresh install
On fresh Ubuntu installations, group membership changes are not active in
the current shell after 'usermod -aG'. This caused network operations and
VM management to fail during 'servobox init'.

Fixed by:
1. Use sudo for all virsh network operations in ensure_default_network()
2. Update user messaging to recommend 'exec sg libvirt newgrp' for immediate
   group activation in current shell
3. Update all documentation (README, docs) with correct first-time workflow

The init process now completes successfully even without active group
membership, using sudo as needed. Users are instructed to activate their
group membership for subsequent operations.

Tested on fresh Ubuntu 22.04 installation.

docs/content/getting-started/run.md, after:

# ServoBox Run Guide

Get up and running with a real-time VM, verify performance, set up networking, and install control stacks. For in-depth options, follow the links to the User Guide.

## 1) Create your first RT VM

```console
servobox init
```

- Defaults: name `servobox-vm`, 4 vCPUs, 8GB RAM, 40GB disk, NAT `192.168.122.100`.
- First run downloads the base image (cached afterwards).

!!! note "First Time Setup"
    If this is your first time running `servobox init`, you'll be added to the `libvirt` group.
    Activate the group membership in your current shell:
    ```console
    exec sg libvirt newgrp
    ```
    Or simply log out and log back in (permanent solution).

Start it:

```console
servobox start
```

- VM lifecycle details: [Commands Reference](../user-guide/commands.md)

## 2) Verify RT configuration and latency

```console
servobox rt-verify          # Check pinning, IRQs, kernel params
servobox test --duration 30 # Quick cyclictest
```

## 3) Networking

Configure or change networking after creation:

```console
servobox network-setup --name my-vm  # Interactive NIC wizard
```

- Network configuration: [Networking](../user-guide/networking.md)

## 4) Install packages and run stacks

The package installer adds pre-configured robotics stacks into your VM image and resolves dependencies automatically.

Basics:

```console
# Discover packages
servobox pkg-install --list

# Install a stack (deps auto-installed)
servobox pkg-install serl-franka-controllers

# Run a stack's launch helper
servobox run serl-franka-controllers

# Target a specific VM
servobox pkg-install --name my-vm libfranka-gen1

# Use custom/local recipes
servobox pkg-install --custom ~/my-recipes my-package

# Show detailed progress
servobox pkg-install ros2-humble --verbose
```

- Details: [Package Management](../user-guide/package-management.md)
- Catalog: [Available Packages](../user-guide/package-management.md#available-packages)

## 5) SSH access

```console
servobox ssh --name my-vm
```

SSH details are covered in the [Network Configuration](../user-guide/networking.md) guide.

## Troubleshooting

- Quick diagnostics and common fixes: [Troubleshooting](../reference/troubleshooting.md)
